=pod

=head1 README for the CPC::PET module

CPC::PET - Calculate potential evapotranspiration (PET) with methods used at the L<Climate Prediction Center (CPC)|https://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov>

This README file provides instructions on how to install the module on your system. For documentation on using the CPC::PET module itself, see L<CPC::PET|https://github.com/noaa-nws-cpc/libperl-cpc-pet/blob/main/docs/CPC/PET.pod>.

=head1 INSTALLATION

This module is not currently available through L<CPAN|https://www.cpan.org/>. Therefore, it must be installed manually on your system.

=head2 Download the source code from GitHub

To install the most up-to-date code, clone the GitHub repository.

	git clone git@github.com:noaa-nws-cpc/libperl-cpc-pet.git

=head2 Installation

To install the module, change into the top directory of the repository and run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

=head1 SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc CPC::PET

=head1 AUTHOR

Adam Allgood C<< <adam.allgood at noaa.gov> >>

=over 4

Meteorologist

L<Climate Prediction Center (CPC)|https://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov>

L<National Weather Service (NWS)|https://www.weather.gov>

=back

=head1 LICENSE

As a work of the United States Government, this project is in the
public domain within the United States.

Additionally, we waive copyright and related rights in the work
worldwide through the CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication.

=head2 CC0 1.0 Universal Summary

This is a human-readable summary of the L<Legal Code (read the full text)|https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode>.

=head3 No Copyright

The person who associated a work with this deed has dedicated the work to
the public domain by waiving all of his or her rights to the work worldwide
under copyright law, including all related and neighboring rights, to the
extent allowed by law.

You can copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial
purposes, all without asking permission.

=head3 Other Information

In no way are the patent or trademark rights of any person affected by CC0,
nor are the rights that other persons may have in the work or in how the
work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.

Unless expressly stated otherwise, the person who associated a work with
this deed makes no warranties about the work, and disclaims liability for
all uses of the work, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
When using or citing the work, you should not imply endorsement by the
author or the affirmer.

=cut

