=head1 NAME

CPC::PET - Calculate potential evapotranspiration (PET) with methods used at the L<Climate Predicton Center|https://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov>.

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.50


=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module provides exportable functions to calculate potential evapotranspiration using different methods. Currently, the only available method is the Thornthwaite Equation, but other methods can be added in the future.

=head3 Export the functions to calculate the PET using the Thornthwaite Equation

    use CPC::PET qw(get_thornthwaite_pet get_thornthwaite_tei);

=head1 EXPORT

The following functions can be exported from CPC::PET into your namespace:

=over 4

=item * C<< get_thornthwaite_pet >>

Calculate the PET using the Thornthwaite Equation

=item * C<< get_thornthwaite_tei >>

Calculate the TEI parameter used in the Thornthwaite Equation from monthly average temperatures

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 get_pet_thornthwaite

Calculate the potential evapotranspiration using the Thornthwaite Equation. Requires five arguments:

=over 4

=item 1

YDAY - the day of the year (1 - 366). When calculating for a range of days, use the midpoint's date

=item 2

NDAYS - number of days in the period

=item 3

LAT - the latitude(s) of the target location(s) (in degrees)

=item 4

TEMP - temperature(s) (deg C)

=item 5

TEI - the Thornthwaite climatological "temperature efficiency index" for the target location(s) based on monthly average temperatures

=back

The LAT, TEMP, and TEI arguments can be either numeric scalars to calculate the PET for a single location, or array refs of matching dimensions to calculate the PET for multiple locations. A separate function called get_thornthwaite_tei is provided in this package to calculate the TEI from monthly average temperature data.

B<Usage:>

    my $pet_scalar = get_thornthwaite_pet($yday,$ndays,$lat,$temp,$tei);    # For a single location
    my $pet_ref    = get_thornthwaite_pet($yday$ndays,\@lat,\@temp,\@tei);  # For multiple locations (all for the same time period)
    my @pet_array  = @{$pet_ref};

B<Limitations or known bugs:>

=over 4

=item 1

This function currently only supports northern hemisphere locations

=back


=cut

=head2 get_thornthwaite_tei

Calculate the climatological "temperature efficiency index" parameter used in the Thornthwaite Equation for potential evapotranspiration. Requires 12 arguments: the monthly average temperatures from January through December (month order does not matter). These can either be 12 scalars to compute the TEI for a single location, or 12 array refs of equal dimensions to compute the TEI for a list of locations. Non-numeric values will result in a TEI value set to NaN.

B<Usage:>

    my $tei_scalar = get_thornthwaite_tei($jan,$feb,$mar,$apr,$may,$jun,$jul,$aug,$sep,$oct,$nov,$dec);             # For a single location
    my $tei_ref    = get_thornthwaite_tei(\@jan,\@feb,\@mar,\@apr,\@may,\@jun,\@jul,\@aug,\@sep,\@oct,\@nov,\@dec); # For multiple locations
    my @tei_array  = @{$tei_ref};


=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Adam Allgood, C<< <adam.allgood at noaa.gov> >>

=over 4

Meteorologist

L<Climate Prediction Center (CPC)|https://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov>

L<National Weather Service (NWS)|https://www.weather.gov>

=back

=head1 BUGS

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc CPC::PET

=head1 REFERENCES

Thornthwaite, C. W., 1948: An approach toward a rational classification of climate. I<Geographical Review>, B<38> 55-94.

=head1 LICENSE

As a work of the United States Government, this project is in the
public domain within the United States.

Additionally, we waive copyright and related rights in the work
worldwide through the CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication.

=head2 CC0 1.0 Universal Summary

This is a human-readable summary of the L<Legal Code (read the full text)|https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode>.

=head3 No Copyright

The person who associated a work with this deed has dedicated the work to
the public domain by waiving all of his or her rights to the work worldwide
under copyright law, including all related and neighboring rights, to the
extent allowed by law.

You can copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial
purposes, all without asking permission.

=head3 Other Information

In no way are the patent or trademark rights of any person affected by CC0,
nor are the rights that other persons may have in the work or in how the
work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.

Unless expressly stated otherwise, the person who associated a work with
this deed makes no warranties about the work, and disclaims liability for
all uses of the work, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
When using or citing the work, you should not imply endorsement by the
author or the affirmer.


=cut

